Question 1: Command Explanation

1. cd Question1
This command is used to change the working directory to the Question1 folder where the assignment files are stored.

2. nano analyze.sh
This command opens the nano text editor to create and edit the shell script named analyze.sh.

3. chmod +x analyze.sh
This command gives executable permission to the script file so that it can be executed as a program.

4. ls -l
This command lists files in long format and is used to verify whether executable permission has been successfully applied to the script.

5. echo "Hello world" > test.txt
This command creates a new file named test.txt and writes the given text into it. The '>' symbol is used to create or overwrite a file.

6. echo "CLI assignment practice" >> test.txt
This command appends text to the existing test.txt file. The '>>' symbol is used to add content without deleting previous data.

7. cat test.txt
This command displays the content of the file test.txt to verify that the file was created correctly.

8. ./analyze.sh test.txt
This command executes the script by providing a file as input argument. The script analyzes the file and displays the number of lines, words, and characters.

9. mkdir testdir
This command creates a new directory named testdir to test directory analysis functionality.

10. touch testdir/a.txt
This command creates an empty file named a.txt inside the testdir directory.

11. touch testdir/b.txt
This command creates another empty text file for testing multiple text files.

12. touch testdir/image.jpg
This command creates a non-text file inside the directory to test file filtering.

13. ls testdir
This command lists all files inside the test directory to verify that files were created successfully.

14. ./analyze.sh testdir
This command executes the script by providing a directory as input argument. The script counts total files and text files inside the directory.

15. ./analyze.sh
This command tests error handling when no argument is provided.

16. ./analyze.sh wrongfolder
This command tests error handling when an invalid path is provided.
